Hi friends and colleagues,
My partner Zachary and I will be premiering a new performance at   
The Kitchen this Friday and Saturday. Please come catch a first glimpse
at a work-in-progress in a rare U.S. appearance! Information follows.


Performing Technology at The Kitchen
From the 2004 Whitney Biennial
April 30 (Fri) and May 1 (Sat): 8pm, $12
http://www.thekitchen.org/04S_april.html
512 West 19th Street, NYC
Tel: 212-255-5793

Live digital samplings from the 2004 Whitney Biennial. Anti-fi techno-punk
feminist Tracy + The Plastics spins a fractured multimedia video art
experiment in the politics of identity and sexuality. Golan Levin, creator
of the Dialtones Telesymphony (2001), collaborates with artist-engineer
Zachary Lieberman on an audiovisual piece probing "the subtleties of
manual expression." Topping off the evening is Cory Arcangel from BEIGE,
an art group who has pioneered the practice of hacking obsolete 8bit
computers and video game systems, and was hailed by the New York Times as
one of 2002's "Top Ten Art Moments."



--------------------------------------------------------------------
"The Manual Input Sessions" (2004)
The Manual Input Sessions is a series of audiovisual vignettes which probe
the expressive possibilities of hand gestures and finger movements. We
present it as a first glimpse of a work-in-progress.

Our concert is performed on a combination of custom interactive software,
analog overhead projectors and digital computer video projectors.  The   
analog and digital projectors are aligned such that their projections    
overlap, resulting in an unusual quality of hybridized, dynamic light.   
During the performance, a computer vision system analyzes the silhouettes
of the performers' hands as they scribble on transparencies and move
across the glass tops of the overhead projectors.  The hand gestures and
transparency drawings are then analyzed by our custom software.  In
response, our software generates synthetic graphics and sounds that are
tightly coupled to the forms and movements of the performers actions.
The synthetic responses are co-projected with the organic, analog
shadows, resulting in an almost magical form of augmented-reality shadow
play.

Golan Levin is an artist, engineer and composer interested in developing
artifacts and events which explore supple new modes of interactive
expression.  His work focuses on the design of systems for the creation,
manipulation and performance of simultaneous image and sound, as part of a
more general inquiry into non-verbal communications protocols in
cybernetic systems.  He is known for the conception and creation of
"Dialtones" (2001), a concert whose sounds are wholly performed through
the carefully choreographed dialing and ringing of the audience's own
mobile phones, and for "The Secret Lives of Numbers" (2002), an
interactive online data visualization featured in the 2004 Whitney
Biennial.  Levin is Assistant Professor of Electronic Art at Carnegie
Mellon University. (http://www.flong.com)

Zachary Lieberman is an artist, engineer and educator whose work explores
the creative and human uses of technology.  He produces installations,   
on-line works and concerts concerned with the themes of kinetic and      
gestural performance, interactive imaging and sound synthesis.  Lieberman
lives and works in New York City, where he teaches courses in audiovisual
synthesis and creative image processing at Parsons School of Design.  Most
recently, Lieberman and Levin have premiered several works exploring the
possibilities of real-time speech analysis, including "RE:MARK" (2002), an
interactive installation, and "Messa di Voce" (2003), an interactive-media
performance.  (http://www.thesystemis.com)